There's an aspect of jQuery
that's really useful when typing,
save yourself a lot of typing actually.
Let's say I'm looking
at this just ul.people,
that's this element in the HTML.
I found a UL with a class of people,
that's what that query says.
I can, for example, add another class to
it using the addClass method in jQuery.
So let's say I just wanted to say,
newclass,
so when that gets called if I go and
look at this ul,
see there's the newclass added on.
Simple enough, but what I really like in
jQuery is that I can immediately call
.removeClass or any other method that acts
on a jQuery object, and
I could remove the class people.
So if I refresh this, see that?
So it called one method, addClass,
remember a method is just a function
that's attached to an object, and
that this keyword of the function ends
up being the object that contains it.
So the add class acted on this jQuery
object and added a new class to that ul,
and then I called the removeClass
within another dot operator and
it acted on that same object.
Which is interesting because
if i do dot on this function,
shouldn't that be affecting this function?
Shouldn't this not work because this
removeClass sits on this object?
How is jQuery doing that?
I really like that as a style,
allowing other coders to quickly
run methods like this,
this is called method chaining.
Ok fine, big word alert.
Method chaining: calling
one method after another,
and each method affects the parent object.
So obj.method1, then .method2 and
both methods end up with this
variable pointing at obj.
I'd like to know how to do that,
let's look at jQuery.
I think the fastest way to do this would
be to just find the addClass method
inside the jQuery source code.
So, let's go find it, hey there it is,
it's added onto the prototype
via the extend method.
What does it do?
Well, I don't really need
to know what it does,
I just wanna know how is it
that I can chain this method?
So, it has a function,
it does some things,
and there's the remove class and,
oh, wait.
See that line?
Return this,
the addClass function returns a value
even though it just is doing work.
I bet you the removeClass does the same
thing, here's the removeClass function.
Yeah, it also returns this, what's
this pointing at, the this variable?
Well since these are methods attached to
the object, well,
it's attached to the prototype and
remember when we call the method from the
object, it will look for it on the object.
It won't find it,
it'll find it on the prototype, right?
Because when I outputted
this to the counsel,
the add class isn't there,
it's on the prototype, see, there it is.
But when I execute a method or
call a method, and
it's found down the prototype chain,
the this variable
points at that originating object,
the object that actually made the call.
So that means the this variable
points to my jQuery object,
the one that was newly
created by this query and
that's what the this variable points to.
So the add class returns it, so
I have an object I call addClass,
it does some work and returns this.
So when this is done it's
essentially like that,
the object that it returned is this object
and so I can call remove class on it.
So all I have to do to make methods
chainable, methods of an object,
is finish the method,
the last line essentially of the method,
the last thing I do is
return the this variable.
Hey that makes total sense and
that's pretty easy.
We just learned something.
All right,
so we have learned something from deep
inside these methods in all of this.
I'd like to find finally how is
this exposed to the outside world,
this entire jQuery giant massive thing?
That would be kind of interesting to see,
I bet you it's towards the bottom.
Yeah, so here is where all those function
expressions and all of that end,
it's all inside its own,
Execution context.
Here we go, so jQuery is first making
sure, remember we said we could
when we add something to the window object
make sure that it's not already there?
So, it's checking to see if there is
a jQuery function at the global object.
Just put an underscore there, just to keep
it separate, and it's checking to see if
there's a $ on the window object,
and it's just keeping it separate.
And then, there's a no
conflict that you you can call
the checks to see if this thing that's
already on the global object is jQuery.
And if it is,
then it just keeps it there basically,
and if not, it kind of ignores it,
it says, oh, it returns jQuery.
So you could call .noconflict and
set jQuery equal to a different
variable on the global object.
So, this is just making sure there
isn't something called jQuery or
$ on the global object first, and then,
well, here it is, here's that line.
Looks like it's making sure that there's
a global object, and if there is,
it does window.jQuery.
So it puts that in the global namespace,
the global object, and
it just does another reference,
so this is just an alias,
window.$ so the $ is just a function name.
And it's pointing at the same spot
in memory as the word jQuery,
this is a valid character for
a function name or
a variable name, so
it's a method called $.
And both of these are pointing at
the same spot in memory as the jQuery
object created inside this function
that had all of these properties and
methods attached to it.
So this is exposing jQuery or
$, both of these,
it's exposing this function, globally.
So I can use it here, so
when I call $, I'm calling a function,
that's why I have parentheses.
That function I'm calling
sitting on the window object is
this jQuery function which
was defined way up here.
Way, way, way up here.
Here, and I'm passing a string
which is the selector.
And then it's doing the whole thing of
calling the new, calling a function
constructor that returns an adjusted
object that's adjusted into an array.
And make sure that it's prototype,
this which is the prototype,
has access to all of these functions and
methods and properties,
all this stuff that it added on.
So it makes sense then that
when I see my jQuery object,
that it's actually an array.
And for example, if I pass something,
let's get rid of these,
if I pass li,
then it converts what I get to an array.
I have all of my elements in that array,
but then my prototype
has all of those methods and
properties that are available to do work.
A giant library of methods, that's what
JQuery is, it's just a JavaScript library.
You know, a lot of people get
bent out of shape about this,
some people don't like JQuery because it's
wrapping up so much JavaScript knowledge.
I think that's true, you shouldn't just
use jQuery and never learn how it works,
never learn the JavaScript
concepts that make it work.
Otherwise, you're gonna find yourself in a
lot of trouble later as you try to do more
complex things.
But if you understand fundamental
JavaScript then jQuery is great.
You can use it for all sorts of things and
you know how to use it properly and
you know how it works.
And you know, when we look at this,
even the people that don't like jQuery
have to acknowledge that this code has
been looked at over and over again by so
many people, it's good code.
So, we've just taken a quick look
through and we've learned a ton.
So, what do you think,
do you think this was worthwhile?
We learned a couple techniques,
like chaining methods,
not having to put new in front of this all
of the time because the jQuery
structure takes care of that for us.
We've learned that we could save other
coders some typing by just making short
function names like this, like $.
What do you think,
was this an open source education?
Is this something that you could do,
and should do?
I think so, and I hope you do too.
You can learn a lot from
famous frameworks and
libraries, and it will make
you a better JavaScript coder.
And, look, you don't have to be afraid of
going through the code, because we didn't
see anything that we couldn't eventually
figure out by looking through the code,
finding where these functions were
referenced, and thinking about it a bit.
We went through this kind of fast, but
you can take your time, look through code,
look a little more at jQuery.
Is there anything that you've done in
jQuery that you'd like to understand
how it works?
Go take a look, don't be afraid
of good code, it will make you
a better JavaScript developer.
So this was a deep dive into
the source code of jQuery.
What we're going to do next
is take what we've learned
inside jQuery as well as
our other concepts and
try our hand at building our own little
mini framework, or library, ourselves.
Let's go.